{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2639
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Exercise 1: \
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt\
x = [10.4, 10.8, 11.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.2, 10.7, 10.5, 10.8, 11.2, 10.6, 11.4]\
y = [7.4, 7.6, 7.9, 7.2, 7.4, 7.1, 7.4, 7.2, 7.8, 7.7, 7.8, 8.3]\
plt.scatter(x, y)\
plt.xlabel('wing length')\
plt.ylabel('tail length')\
plt.title("Wing length versus tail length ")\
plt.show()\
\
The variables appear to be potentially related, but the correlation doesn\'92t seem particularly strong. \
\
Exercise 2:\
\
a = np.std(x)\
b = np.std(y)\
c = np.cov(x,y)[0][1]\
\
print ("python calculated coefficient:", np.corrcoef(x,y))\
\
print ("standard deviation of x:", np.std(x))\
print ("standard deviation of y:", np.std(y))\
print ("covariance of x and y:", np.cov(x,y)[0][1])\
\
correlation_coefficient= (c/(a*b))\
print ("calculated coefficient:", correlation_coefficient)\
\
I got 0.87 for the python calculated coefficient and 0.95 for my calculated coefficient. I don\'92t know if I used the exactly correct formula for calculating it, which would explain the difference. \
\
Exercise 3:\
\
a = np.std(x)\
b = np.std(y)\
c = np.cov(x,y)[0][1]\
r = np.corrcoef(x,y)[1][0]\
n = len(x)\
print ("python calculated coefficient:", np.corrcoef(x,y)[1][0])\
print ("standard deviation of x:", np.std(x))\
print ("standard deviation of y:", np.std(y))\
print ("covariance of x and y:", np.cov(x,y)[0][1])\
correlation_coefficient= (c/(a*b))\
print ("calculated coefficient:", correlation_coefficient)\
sterr = np.sqrt((1-r**2)/(n - 2))\
print ("standard error:", sterr)\
z = 0.5*math.log((1 + r)/(1 - r))\
sz = np.sqrt(1/(n-3))\
interval = (z + (1.96*sz)), (z - (1.96*sz))\
print ('confidence interval:', interval)\
\
Exercise 4:\
The confidence interval for 95% confidence in a two tailed test is (1.9878733169204674, 0.6812066502538008). Thus we can reject the null that r is = 0, because it is not within the confidence interval. \
\
Exercise 5:\
*code is the same but plugged in 0.75 for r \
The r value is not the same and shifts the confidence interval to (1.62628840786099, 0.3196217411943233). However, the result is still significant \
\
Exercise 6:\
I used a power calculator for this because I really didn\'92t know how to do this. I got around 0.9 but I\'92ll definitely go over this one once the answers are posted. }